The Joe Rogan.
Experience.
The amount of medical testing we have to go through before a contest is crazy.
I would imagine part the pack,
the medical packet that we have to get filled out by our primary cares for
world's strongest man is like 48 pages long, but yeah,
it's wild.
Dude. So getting you in for an exam, how long does that take?
We have to get it done on our own. So they send,
after the invites are done and after the,
the lineup is set for world's strongest, man, you get the email that it's like,
here's the medical packet you need done by this date. Um,
and you pretty much have to make an appointment with your primary care and get
it all done.
So what does your doctor say when you come to him with that 48 page packet?
Well, luckily I've gone to her a few times with it,
so she knows to block off some times she knows what's up. Yeah. You know,
and it's, um, but it's, it's smart because like we have to get an EKG,
we have to do stress testing. We have to get a full blood panel done. Um,
they have to look at everything because they don't want somebody dropping dead
on TV. That makes them look pretty bad.
Yeah. They would have to make sure that you're not already over-trained too.
Right. Like.
Yeah. Yeah. So they look at everything. I mean, it's a full blood panel. They,
like I said, they do the EKG, they look at the heart, they do. Um,
and then it's, you know, obviously a full medical history as well,
just to everything from parents to pass diseases, to what runs in the family,
everything.
And now you guys aren't insured by these competitions are, you know,
so if you tear your hamstring off, it's all on you. man.
God, that seems.
Crazy. It's ballsy. Yeah.
It's, it's risky. Yeah. Real, real risky. I mean,
that seems kind of crazy that during the competition itself, you're not,
you're not covered.
It's all on us. Even those medical packets, like they say like all, all,
all fees associated with this are up to the athletes expense.
And they don't pay that. Well, no.
You. When you make decent money, I mean, it's not a lot, you know,
like to win world's strongest, man. You make like 50 grand really.
That's it for.
The strongest, the strongest man in the world.
That'd be worth a million bucks. I think.
So that's the number. I mean, but look at it.
So like Worldstar has been around since the seventies, I need to CC.
Zero's going to win the strongest man on the girls. That's what I'm.
Talking about. Come on, we need you in the sport is.
We only up the money.
It seems like somebody should be able to pony up a million bucks.
I would love somebody, I will say. So like, you know,
we talk about world's strongest man and giants live and that whole series,
but then we also have the Arnold circuit.
So there's like two big pro circuits for strong men to choose from. Um,
the Arnold circuit. They've definitely elevated the game. Right?
So the Arnold strongman classic in Ohio is like kind of seen as
the most elite competition in the world because only 10 guys qualify for that
contest. World's strongest, man,
you get 25 and then the prize money in Ohio is better than
world's strongest, man. It it's almost double actually. Yeah. For Arnold.
So at the Arnold,
so each of the Arnold international shows it's standard prize money.
So the Arndell international shows there, one here in Santa Monica,
this weekend, there's Australia, south America, South Africa, Europe, Canada.
Um, I think that's it.
But we all know the prize money going into each show because it's the same at
every one. So it's like 10 grand for first 8, 6, 4, 2, 1.
So they pay out top six, but they also pay all of our travel there.
So it's not too bad. No.
But then the big motivation is to get to Ohio, right?
Where first place is 85 grand and they pay out all 10 athletes,
but like third place at, I think it's second,
second or third place at Ohio makes just as much as the world's strongest man.
So this is probably why you have to compete 40 times a year. I mean,
it's kind of.
I think it was like to be honest, like I didn't really do that.
Well this past weekend in Santa Monica, so I didn't make any money. Oh really?
Yeah. Oh.
No. Which is a bummer, but like, I wasn't like this weekend, like the contest,
like for me, it was more like a, a gauging.
I was trying to gauge where I was at going into Columbus.
The events were really similar.
So do you do that?
Like you have to be careful to not go too crazy in one of these events.
I definitely like held back this weekend. You know,
I think I could have hit another gear if I needed to,
but already having my qualification to the big show. I like mentally, I,
I don't think I would've been able to like turn it on. Like I need to in Ohio.
And when is Ohio?
What day? First week of March. So, uh, the contest is the fifth and sixth,
I think, or the sixth and seventh.
Nothing between right now, which is January 20th and March.
So how do you ramp up? Like what,
what is your schedule like to prepare for something like that?
So the biggest thing, so we look at the events, right? So, you know,
I mentioned we have the max deadlift. So my goal is that a thousand pounds,
which would be,
which would make me the first person under 300 pounds body weight to do that in
history. Whoa. Yeah. How close are you? I pulled nine 70 in July.
Christ.
So God. That's a lot of weight. So we're close, we're close.
Um, and you're only 28. Yeah.
Yeah. You're going to get stronger. Exactly. So if you don't get to 300 pounds,
if you don't gain too much weight, you can nail. I don't want to, like.
I, I was, I was almost 300.
I was like 2 98 at world's strongest man in 2018 and I was a fat.
It was gross. Like I looked at my husband. I was like, why did you want it?
Like lay next to me. Like I had neck rolls on my neck, rolls on like,
I was gross.
Like some dudes like bears. They're like, I'm big and hairy.
He does like, and I totally am a bear,
but like I was an ugly bear dude.
Like a bear just going into ironies. Oh.
Man. I look at picture snap. My head looked like a blueberry. I was like
thinking. Um,
but like honestly like 2 85 is I kind of my sweet spot because I'm still getting
stronger. We're getting a little bit leaner and getting better at the sport.
So like I don't see a reason to get any bigger. Right. Um,
but I honestly do think a thousand pounds is doable right now.
Well, it seems like if you're 30, 30 pounds away,
if you're doing that much weight 906,
I mean look 30 pounds to a deadlift for a regular person.
That's an extra 30 pounds. That's a lot,
but not when you're already doing 970 pounds.
Yeah. And like to go back to like the prep and like the ramp up to this contest,
you know, like before, like this weekend we had, um,
the deadlift was a 7 75 for reps in a minute and I pulled six,
which is okay. Like I probably could have pulled seven or eight if I needed to.
The winning number was nine. Um, and everybody that, ironically,
everybody that finished ahead of me in that event has already dead lifted over a
thousand pounds. So that made me feel pretty good. Um,
but like leading up into these next few weeks,
like I'm going to start working like my heaviest dental failure before this
contest was eight 50 for one,
I'm going to start working up into that low to mid nines, um,
in the next couple of weeks and probably have my last heavy, heavy deadlift,
probably three weeks before the contest two and a half weeks before the contest.
And then do dead lifts at all before leading.
Up to the contest. If I do, it'll be light. I say like relative, you know,
it's a relative term. Sorry.
Yeah. So you're just trying to let your body recover.
That's what a lot of people think, like people forget,
like when we're training this hard, like we're beat to. And like,
we're like we get stronger when we, when we rest and recover.
So I really don't exercise or lift like the week of a contest.
Like I'll do my recovery workouts that I've talked about before, where like,
I'm just kind of swimming, hot tub, sauna that stuff,
but I won't lift any weights. Um, and that's cause like my body,
like my central nervous system,
like everything just needs a break and you get stronger over that period of
time. For sure. It's amazing.
Does it make you feel like you maybe are over-training and in other ways,
because if you get that much stronger, when you take a week off,
almost seems like you should do that more often.
No,
because I think you need to get to that point where you need to get beat down,
you know, like there are some shrink coaches out there that like, you know,
we call it a de-load right. So it's like where you're ramping up, ramping up,
going super heavy, then you back off for a little bit. Right.
And so that's what we call a de-load and there's some coaches that give that
every fourth week of their program regardless.
And I don't agree with that because I don't think anybody can work that hard for
three weeks to beat,
to beat down their body enough where they need it every single fourth week,
normal people don't train hard enough to need regular. Deloads.
The deloads loads. The guys who practiced that way,
are they winning or are they not elite? No.
Um, most of it, like I say that and like, most of that's like in,
like I see a lot of the powerlifting community where it's just like squat bench
deadlift. Um, but like in all honesty, like I don't feel people, like,
I feel like you have to earn your de-load. And that's like,
what my coach does with me.
Like I went almost six months without a de-load leading into this contest.
Jesus. And that happened about a month and a half ago.
And I knew I needed it because I was tired every day,
regardless of how much sleep I got,
I didn't want to go to the gym every time I'd get to the gym. I was miserable.
I just wanted to leave. I didn't want to look at anything.
I don't want to talk to anybody. And I texted my coach. I was like,
I need a break. And he was like, all right, cool.
I was waiting for you to get to that point, but it's a good, but you know,
it's like, it's like, I feel like it's something you have to earn. Right.
Because people like, people think they work hard,
but they don't really know what that means until they're like actually pushed to
do something. Right. And that's where, where I got to that point. Um,
and that's why like these next five weeks are going to be like super crucial in
my training to this contest because I'm going to have to,
I'm going to beat my body to over these next five weeks. Um, you know,
and my husband will probably get off at me cause I'll be a prick one or two
times at least. Um, but it's like, you know,
this is the biggest competition in the world and I know what I need to sacrifice
to get to that point. And that's going to mean long training sessions,
really hard training sessions. And um, you know, just like I said,
I'm just going to beat my body down, um,
just to reap those rewards at the end of it. Yeah.
That's gotta leave you super exhausted. It hurts and cranky and just like.